## Presentation Notes:
"Calculation of Mappings Between One and n-dimensional Values Using the Hilbert Space-filling Curve"

The concept of a space-filling curve emerged in the 19th Century. It is originally attributed to Peano. The first graphical, or geometrical, representation of the space-filling curve is attributed to David Hilbert.

Hilbert Curves pass through every point in an n-dimensional space once and once only in some particular order according to some algorithm. As such they graphically express a mapping between one-dimensional values and the coordinates of points, regarded as multi-dimensional values, since the points are placed in a sequence according to the order in which the curve passes through them.

Hilbert Curve
A square is initially divided into 4 sub-squares which are then ordered such that any pair of consecutive sub-squares share a common edge.

The Hilbert Curve manifests a useful property in which consecutively ordered points are adjacent to each other in space.

"Using Space-filling Curves for Multidimensional Indexing"

the points on the line are plainly ordered and this ordering thus gives the points of the square an ordering now known as the Hilbert Curve. Since this curve passes through every point in the square once and once only it is said to be space filling. The curve is everywhere contiunuous and nowhere differentiable.
Intuitively one can see that the continuity results from the persistence of the adjacency property at every step and the non-differentiability from the sharp changes of direction at each step.

"On Multi-Dimensional Hilbert Indexings"
The advantage of Hilbert curves is their (compared to other curves) simple structure.

One of the main features of the Hilbert curve is its "self-similarity". Here "self-similar" shall simply mean that the curve can be generated by putting together identical (basic construction) units, only applying rotation and reection
to these units. In a sense, the Hilbert curve is thesimplest" self-similar,recursive, locality-preserving indexing scheme for square meshes of size 2^k * 2^k.

"Compact Hilbert Indices"
Space-filling curves are continuous one-to-one functions which map a com- pact interval to a multi-dimensional unit hypercube.

Due to the recursive geometric nature of the orig- inal construction, the Hilbert curves naturally impose an ordering on the points in finite square lattices. In particular, the Hilbert curve used in this manner has been found to be the best space-filling curve for preserving data locality.

By considering the order on which the curve visits the points in an n- dimensional lattice with 2^m points per dimension, we may assign an index to each point between 0 and 2^mn − 1. In the context of database systems this enumeration is used to sort the points while preserving data locality, meaning that points close in the multi-dimensional space remain close in the linear ordering. This in turn translates to data structures with excellent range query performance.

The key property of the Hilbert curve is that successive points are immediate neighbors in the lattice. Thus, to maintain this property we are looking for a walk through the 2^n points such that every point will be enumerated, and successive points will be neighboring corners of the hypercube.

##TODO

Put sequence functions somewhere else, or export them only to tests somehow
